Hi everyone,


It's your TA, Yongxin. Here is a brief description of what I talked about on today's tutorial. 
If you didn't make it, you can refer to it. (Please note my algorithms are not the only solutions.) Really hope it helps!


If you don't know how to implement your algorithms, that's fine! 
The algorithms part only worth a very small portion of the total marks. 
(Read marking key!) If you can complete all the other methods and sucessfully find the murderer, you will get most of the marks! 
So, in this case, you will just query all the suspects until you find the murderer, without ruling out anything.


1. For person


After you get the value N, you will check every digit of this number. 
Highest digit is for deciding gender, next highest digit is for deciding age range, and the lowest one is for knowing the 
height difference. According to each digit, you are able to rule out certain cases.


2. For location


First, you have to query the oracle twice regarding the first two suspects, 1 and 2. After that, you know that the murderer 
case must be either one of the two intersection points of the two circles whose centers are suspect 1 and suspect 2.


Then, you can check the rest of the suspects, their distances between suspect 1 and suspect 2, respectively. You can rule out 
the ones that don't match the distances that are returned by the oracle about the queries for suspect 1 and suspect 2. 


OR, you may try to compute the two intersection points, for solve the two equations that represent the two circles.


(1) If you know how to get the intersec points' coordinates for any two circles, that's good. So, it will be a pure equation solving 
problems. You will need to get two sets of (x, y). One of them is the real murder, and you will need to check again for the rest of suspect cases.


(2) Or, you can refer to the following links about how to solve such problem by following a formatted formula of x and y. However, 
you'll need to move the circles and move them back to get the final (x, y). That may require some math backgrounds. (this is totally optional!!)


http://mathworld.wolfram.com/Circle-CircleIntersection.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotation_(mathematics)


Assume the three points are A (2, 3), B (4, 4), and C (1, 2), where A and B are two suspects, and C is the murder location.  The goal is to find the coordinate of C.

a.  Shift the points to A', B', and C' so that A' = (0, 0)

b.  Rotate the triangle to A', B", and C" so that edge AB is on the x-axis, i.e., B" = (d, 0), where d is the length of edge AB 
(the distance between the two suspect locations)  The angle of the rotation can be found by Math.acos(Math.abs(B.getX() - A.getX())/d). 
 Please be careful with actual angle.  See line 162 - 167 in Detective.java.

c.  C" will be one of the two intersections of the circle centered at A' with radius d1 (the distance between A and C) and the circle centered at B" 
with radius d2 (the distance between B and C).  So the coordinate of C" can be calculated as follows:

    x = (d * d - d2 * d2 + d1 * d1) / (2 * d);
    y = sqrt(d1 * d1 - x * x)


d.  Now we need to rotate the triangle back using the transformation formula

        angle = -1 * angle;
        x = x * Math.cos(angle) + y * Math.sin(angle);
        y= -1 * x * Math.sin(angle) + y * Math.cos(angle);

e.  At last, you need to shift the points back the original position of A, B, and C.

f.  Now you need to check with the the Oracle if this is the right location.  If not, it must be the other solution of the sqrt() operation.  
Go back to step 3 and change y to -y and repeat steps 4 and 5.  This will definitely be the point.


3. For time


There are more than one solutions for time, because the difference d we give is the range. So, what you may do is to update the range over and over again, 
until you rule out more and more cases, and only leave the real murder case in the range.


When designing the algoritm, you need to think about how to update the lower and upper bound of the range. 
After getting a small range, you could start to check the rest of the suspects (make queries) whether they are murderer.


Ok, that's the summary! Good luck with your assignment and hope you work with fun.


Cheers,
Yongxin




On Fri, Mar 15, 2013 at 11:45 PM, Yongxin Liu <yongliu@ucalgary.ca> wrote:

Hi everyone,


Because assignment 4 is a little complicated, so on next week's tutorials "Help on Assignment 4" there will be some teaching. 
We will together go through some steps of doing this assignment, you will spend some time thinking about your design, and some example codes will be provided too.


Best,
Yongxin 


On Fri, Mar 15, 2013 at 3:18 PM, Yongxin Liu <yongliu@ucalgary.ca> wrote:

Hi everyone,


Please find the tutorial 11 note attached in this email.


Next week's two tutorials are both "Help on Assignment 4", so there will be no teaching or exercises. Assignment 4 is released on Blackboard 
with a 4-day deadline extension. It is due at 4pm on Mar 26 (Tuesday) via the submit program.


Have a nice weekend!


Cheers,
Yongxin



